OK so in the previous lecture we've seen how we can write very simple code in a normal text editor saved
as the file and that file will work normally and the code will get executed.
Now you can actually use a text editor to write even more complex Python programs as the program gets
bigger.
It becomes more challenging to just use a normal or simple text editor.
There are programs that are specifically made to help you with programming testing refactoring and so
on.
These are commonly known as ID is or integrated development environment.
So the program that we're going to use to write Python programs throughout the whole Course is called
pie chart.
Now I'm going to include the download link for this program into resources of this lecture.
But I have it in here.
And the professional version is paid.
So we're going to be using the community version and it's perfect.
You don't really need the professional anyway.
So if you click on the download the download will automatically start.
Now I'm actually going to cancel it because I've already downloaded it and when you downloaded it's
going to go in your downloads directory so you can click on this in here or you can just go to your
files in here and then go to downloads.
And as you can see I have it downloaded in here.
Now this is compressed.
So in order to uncompress this archive and go to right click it and click on extract here.
Now right here I have the directory for the program and you can leave it in downloads and use it from
here.
But I like to put the optional programs in the opiated directory.
This is the directory that you're supposed to put all the optional programs.
So I'm going to right click this and copy it and then I am going to press control L to open the path
bar and here as you can see I'm going to put forward slash or P-T to go to the opiated directory and
I'll go to pasted in here.
Now inside the church directory We have a bin directory and inside this directory We have a file called
pi charme thought.
SH This is the file that will run the program for us.
So now in order to run this we have to go to terminal and we have to navigate to where this file is.
So we're going to use the cd command and it's in our P-T pie chart and you can use the tab to auto complete
as you can see and then now if we're listed here you'll see the same files that we see here and the
ones that we want to run is a charm that sh.
Now in order to run an executable in Linux all we have to do is put that forward slash followed by the
name of the executable which is Pi charmed that sh.
Now if I hit Enter you'll see the program is going to start loading and you'll see the welcome message
of the program.
Now I've actually run this before so I didn't get all the initial configurations.
So when you ran it for the first time it's going to ask you which theme you want to use.
I think to use the dark theme as you can see here.
And then I kept everything else as the default.
So let's go ahead and create a new project by clicking on this in here.
And as you can see it's asking us for the location for the project.
So by default by chance puts projects in route and in a directory called pi Chown projects.
So leave all of this the same.
And the only part you want to modify is the name of the project which is set to Untitled right now.
And we're going to set it to Hello.
I'm going to click on create this will create a project and open up the editor window for me.
So right here on the left we have the tree that shows the external libraries and we'll talk about what
that is later on on the path for our project.
So right now you can see that this project in our home directory followed by pi Chan projects followed
by Halo.
So this is the name of the directory.
And inside it as you can see we have no files.
So if I actually go to my file manager and if we just go to this location.
So if we go to route which is home you can see we have a new directory called pi Chan project.
So in the future I'm always going to put all the programs and projects that we make inside this directory.
Inside it you can see the hello project that we just created.
And inside that there is nothing.
There is no files.
So we're going to create a new file by right click on this and go on you and we're going to create a
python file and it's asking us for the name of the file.
So let's call it hello.
That's why similar to what we did before.
I'm going to click on OK.
And as you can see now we have a new file here.
And again if we go back to the path you can see we have a new file called Python that Pyu II now and
here we can actually put any code that we want to write and we're going to start by in the shebang.
So it's us our Bean and Python and then we're going to start type in our program and we're going to
write a similar program to the previous lecture.
The whole point of this lecture is to show you how to install and use pi cherub not to write a program.
So I'm just going to do print and as you can see as soon as I type print it's automatically showing
me the function and it's showing me how this function can be used.
So it takes I should open a bracket and inside the bracket as you can see now it's Tell me the values
that I can put and similar to what we've seen in the previous lecture.
We're going to put two quotation marks to enclose our message that we want to display and we want to
display Hello world.
Now you can see it's also used in different colors for different parts of the text so you can see the
function name is in blue and you can see the message that I'm displaying in green.
Now this message is being displayed in green because what's in here is known as a string and Python.
So any sequence of characters enclosed by two quotation marks is known as a strain and we'll see what
strings are and how to deal with them more actually much more throughout the course.
So right now this is done and we can actually run this code from within this project.
So all we have to do we can just go to run and click on the run here and we're going to tell it we want
to run the Hello.
And as you can see it Ronit for me and it's shown me the message in here.
But I actually don't like to do that.
I like to run the file from terminal and that's why I spent a lot of time showing you where the files
are going to be stored so that you know where to navigate.
Where do you want to run the file.
So let's go back to our terminal and I'm going to split the screen so I'm going right click and split
horizontally and if we want to run this file right here from the terminal then what we need to do is
navigate to the location where this file is stored.
And if you remember when we created this project we set this project to be stored in home Python projects.
Hello.
So we have to navigate to that location.
So I'm going to do cd root which is home followed by Python projects.
Again you can use the top to autocomplete and the name of my project is hello.
Now if I do ls here you'll see I have the file here and again in order to run this file we can just
do a python Hello.
Why and this will execute the file for me.
So that's it for this lecture.
I just wanted to show you how to install PI charm.
Create a project and run the code into project from pie chart and from the terminal.
So that in the future when I create a new project or run the code I will not cover this or I might be
doing this quickly because I've already covered how to do this in this lecture.